Computers are as important to modern science as telescopes and test tubes.
Unfortunately, most scientists are never taught how to use them
effectively: most have to figure out for themselves how to build,
validate, maintain, and share complex programs.  This is as fair as
teaching someone addition and then expecting them to figure out calculus
on their own, and about as likely to succeed.

Scientists trying to take advantage of tera- and peta-scale computing
pay a particularly high price for their lack of background skill.  How
to use parallelism effectively is still an open research problem in
computer science; when it's combined with leading-edge problems in
physics, mechanical engineering, or biochemistry, the complexities
compound more often than they cancel out.

It doesn't have to be like this.  Since its first run at Los Alamos
National Laboratory in 1997, the Software Carpentry course has taught
scientists and engineers the basic skills they need to use computers more
effectively.  Its topics are those things left standing after various
bandwagons have rolled through, including version control, automated
builds, unit testing, how to crunch common data formats, and small-scale
software project management.

Thanks to generous support from SciNet, SHARCNET, and others, Software
Carpentry will be offered online this fall to 40 students at Ontario
universities.  The course will be taught online: each week, students will
view a series of video lectures and work through exercises with support
from the instructor and TAs through Skype, desktop sharing, web forums,
and other channels.

If you, your colleagues, or your students are interested, please to go
http://software-carpentry.org/blog/ for details, or contact the course
administrator at info@software-carpentry.org.  The course is non-credit,
but there is no charge for enrolment.
